Technical Report: HobbyFi Copilot Architecture
Role: AI Engineer Assessment | Candidate: [Your Name]
1. Executive Summary
The HobbyFi Copilot is an agentic CRM interface designed to streamline vendor operations. By moving from a manual dashboard-centric model to a conversational AI-first model, vendors can perform complex queries and data-driven updates with natural language, governed by strict human-in-the-loop (HITL) safety protocols.
2. Architecture Overview
The system employs a decoupled agentic pattern utilizing the Mastra framework for orchestration and an MCP (Model Context Protocol) server for secure database interactions.
	•	Workflow Logic:
	1.	Orchestrator (Mastra): Manages conversational state and intent classification.
	2.	Tool Layer (MCP): Abstracts database queries/writes into secure, standardized tools.
	3.	Approval Gate: A stateful "Human-in-the-Loop" gate for all write-operations.
(Insert Mermaid Diagram Here)
3. Technology Stack
Layer	Technology	Rationale
Orchestration	Mastra	Native agentic workflows & robust tool-calling.
Tool Interface	MCP (Model Context Protocol)	Standardized, secure data access; platform-agnostic.
Memory	Vector DB (Qdrant)	Entity-based memory to persist vendor-specific context.
LLM Inference	GPT-4o / Claude 3.5	High precision for complex CRM data reasoning.
4. Memory & Guardrails Strategy
Entity-Based Memory
Rather than relying on raw chat history, the system implements Entity-Based Memory. It stores vendor preferences and operational patterns (e.g., "typically manages badminton courts") in a Vector DB, allowing the Copilot to provide personalized assistance during repeat sessions.
Guardrails
	•	Input Sanitization: All vendor prompts are passed through a Pydantic-based schema validator to ensure inputs match expected CRM data formats.
	•	Prompt Injection Defense: The agent is system-prompted to ignore any request that attempts to alter database schema or global system configurations.
	•	Authorization: The agent operates under a restricted CRM user context, ensuring vendors can only access data belonging to their vendor_id.
5. Workflow Orchestration: The "HITL" Gate
For sensitive operations (e.g., updating membership dates), the system follows a Two-Phase Commit:
	1.	Phase 1 (Proposal): The LLM identifies the tool request and generates a ProposedChange object.
	2.	Phase 2 (Approval): The pipeline pauses. The UI renders the proposal for vendor verification.
	3.	Phase 3 (Execution): Only after the vendor confirms does the MCP server commit the SQL transaction.
6. Mock Data Schema (Assumptions)
For the purpose of this architecture, the following schema is assumed for vendor data:
JSON

{
  "vendor_id": "uuid",
  "dashboard_stats": {
    "revenue_daily": 0.0,
    "active_trials": 0
  },
  "users": [
    {
      "user_id": "uuid",
      "membership_status": "active | trial | expired",
      "associated_game": "string"
    }
  ]
}
